Samuel was only my age
when Jehovah spoke to him.
He respected Eli,
but he had to stand up for what was right.
I never thought that I’d have
to do something similar.
I loved my brother,
and I always wanted to be like him.
But those pictures of him partying with kids
from school showed
he was living a double life.
I didn’t want to get him in trouble.
But I knew I had to say something.
I told him he had to tell Mom and Dad.
He warned me not to tell.
But Samuel was courageous
and “did not hide anything,”
and “Jehovah himself was with him.”
I couldn’t hide this.
Talking to my parents wasn’t easy,
but I knew it was the right thing to do.
Of course, we were proud of Danny.
But . . .
. . . at the time,
we were a little distracted.
Maybe, somehow it
was all just a misunderstanding.
We needed to know what was going on.
We just wanted to help him.
We couldn’t help but blame ourselves
for what was happening.
Then we thought back to Samuel’s example.
Samuel, you need to listen to us.
You’re getting old, Samuel,
and your sons are not like you.
They cheat, and they take bribes.
They bend Jehovah’s rules
any way they please.
Even faithful Samuel had sons
who deviated from Jehovah’s standards.
We wanted to help our son.
Just as Samuel didn’t alter his course
and Jehovah stood by him,
we knew that if we did things His way,
He’d stand by us.